Python’s key advantages  Python’s success revolves around several advantages it provides for beginners and experts alike. Python is easy to learn and use The number of features in the language itself is modest, requiring relatively little investment of time or effort to produce your first programs. The Python syntax is designed to be readable and straightforward. This simplicity makes Python an ideal teaching language, and it lets newcomers pick it up quickly. As a result, developers spend more time thinking about the problem they’re trying to solve and less time thinking about language complexities or deciphering code left by others.Python is broadly adopted and supportedPython is both popular and widely used, as the high rankings in surveys like the Tiobe Index and the large number of GitHub projects using Python attest. Python runs on every major operating system and platform, and most minor ones too. Many major libraries and API-powered services have Python bindings or wrappers, letting Python interface freely with those services or directly use those libraries. Python is not a “toy” languageEven though scripting and automation cover a large chunk of Python’s use cases (more on that later), Python is also used to build professional-quality software, both as standalone applications and as web services. Python may not be the fastest language, but what it lacks in speed, it makes up for in versatility.Python keeps moving forwardEach revision of the Python language adds useful new features to keep pace with modern software development practices. Asynchronous operations and coroutines, for instance, are now standard parts of the language, making it easier to write Python apps that perform concurrent processing.[ Get Expert Insights to Master Cloud Complexity at CIO's Future of Cloud Summit on November 8 – Register Today! ][ Also on InfoWorld: 24 Python libraries for every Python developer ]What Python is used forThe most basic use case for Python is as a scripting and automation language. Python isn’t just a replacement for shell scripts or batch files; it is also used to automate interactions with web browsers or application GUIs or to do system provisioning and configuration in tools such as Ansible and Salt. But scripting and automation represent only the tip of the iceberg with Python.General application programming with PythonYou can create both command-line and cross-platform GUI applications with Python and deploy them as self-contained executables. Python doesn’t have the native ability to generate a standalone binary from a script, but third-party packages like cx_Freeze and PyInstaller can be used to accomplish that.Data science and machine learning with PythonSophisticated data analysis has become one of fastest-moving areas of IT and one of Python’s star use cases. The vast majority of the libraries used for data science or machine learning have Python interfaces, making the language the most popular high-level command interface to for machine learning libraries and other numerical algorithms.[ The essentials from InfoWorld: Get started with Anaconda, the Python distribution for data science. • What’s new in the Anaconda distribution for Python. • 5 essential Python tools for data science—now improved. ]Web services and RESTful APIs in PythonPython’s native libraries and third-party web frameworks provide fast and convenient ways to create everything from simple REST APIs in a few lines of code to full-blown, data-driven sites. Python’s latest versions have strong support for asynchronous operations, letting sites handle tens of thousands of requests per second with the right libraries.